There are two things you want to do when working with the soft keyboard here,
we want to make sure that when we enter something, it actually pushes our form up so that we can reach
all the values here, we can't right now because for secure text enter, we don't get any proposals so
this bar is gone
but it would be nice if it pushes this up so it's always in screen and it would also be nice if we could
click somewhere else to dismiss this.
Now let's work on both
and let's start with pushing this up.
This actually is a bit tricky though there is a helpful component in react native, this component
just is a bit strange from the behavior sometimes.
Let's import it all the way at the top from react native, it's name is the keyboard avoiding view.
Now with that imported, if we go down
to our jsx code, we can replace our wrapping view here inside the background image with keyboard avoiding
view, make sure to also replace the closing tag
and now we need to configure this, we need to set the behavior,
so how should it achieve
this effect of pushing up the elements? There
you can always check out the docs of keyboard avoiding view to learn about the different behaviors,
I strongly recommend using padding. So this will simply some padding at the bottom of the page effectively
pushing up the elements.
If we now save this and I go back and I rotate into landscape mode so that we have a little bit less screen
size available, I click into this field here,
you now see it gets pushed up so that we can see everything and that we can see our screen here, the same should
work on Android.
Now if I reload this, you see if I enter something here, it gets pushed up, if I close it, it goes down.
So this is now behaving better,
the second thing is that I wanted to be able to dismiss the keyboard if you click somewhere else, for this,
I'll import something else from react native
and that something else is
the keyboard API.
Now you can learn more about the keyboard API in the official docs of course,
if you scroll down to APIs, there if you choose keyboard, you learn what you can do with it,
it allows you to control keyboard, add some event listeners and so on.
Now what I want to do is I want to call this dismiss function here,
I want to call it whenever the user presses
somewhere on the screen,
so for this I'll import touchable without feedback
because I certainly don't want to turn the whole screen opaque or something like this.
Now I will go down to my jsx code and there, unfortunately wrapping the entire keyboard avoiding view
will lead to it not working correctly anymore,
wrapping image background unfortunately will have no effect so
what I'll do is I'll wrap my input container,
better than nothing,
so touchable without feedback and this is something which very well might be changed in the future
but for now it is what it is.
So here I'll wrap this entire view here,
you must have only one child element so make sure to fulfill this criteria,
I will wrap it with touchable without feedback and there I'll bind on press to keyboard dismiss. Don't execute
dismiss yet though,
so no parentheses are added,
just pass a reference of it to on press so whenever this occurs or fires, it will trigger dismiss.
Now with that, if I go back to the application, you can see that whenever I click somewhere in the input,
it dismisses the keyboard,
unfortunately clicking outside of it doesn't work due to the reasons I described,
it has to be somewhere on the input here but better than nothing. You can of course improve this
if you add some other view here which would wrap your other content but you'll probably need to adjust
flexbox thereafter and then wrap this other view with touchable without feedback, so you can wrap more
just directly wrapping keyboard avoiding view or image background won't work at least right now.
Also keep in mind, users can of course always dismiss this by hitting the return button or on Android,
this back button here. With that we got the auth form finished,
we now got it well-prepared for the various things we might need and we can handle user input, we can
validate,
we provide a pleasant user experience.
Let's now make sure that we also do this on our other component where we want to have user input, the
share place screen.